Document breaking changes for complex types in EF Core 10.0 (#5113)
aspnet/EntityFramework.Docs: entity-framework/core/what-is-new/ef-core-10.0/breaking-changes.md

});
```

<a name="compiled-model-private-methods"></a>

### Compiled models now throw exception for value converters with private methods

[Tracking Issue #35033](https://github.com/dotnet/efcore/issues/35033)

#### Old behavior

> Previously, when using value converters with compiled models (using `dotnet ef dbcontext optimize`), EF would reference the converter type and everything worked correctly.

Reviewer: @AndriySvyryd is this accurate? I haven't dived in, but the issue makes it sound like things didn't actually fully work, and this is just about throwing the right exception? If everything did work, does that mean we did some sort of breaking in change in order to support NativeAOT (which is experimental and for which we in principle shouldn't be breaking regular behavior)?

```c#
public sealed class BooleanToCharConverter : ValueConverter<bool, char>
{
    public static readonly BooleanToCharConverter Default = new();

    public BooleanToCharConverter()
        : base(v => ConvertToChar(v), v => ConvertToBoolean(v))
    {
    }

    private static char ConvertToChar(bool value) // Private method
    {
        return value ? 'Y' : 'N';
    }

    private static bool ConvertToBoolean(char value) // Private method
    {
        return value == 'Y';
    }
}
```

#### New behavior

Starting with EF Core 10.0, EF generates code that directly references the conversion methods themselves. If these methods are private, compilation will fail.

#### Why

This change was necessary to support NativeAOT.

#### Mitigations

Make the methods referenced by value converters public or internal instead of private.

<a name="complex-type-column-uniquification"></a>

### Complex type column names are now uniquified

[Tracking Issue #4970](https://github.com/dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs/issues/4970)

#### Old behavior

> Previously, when mapping complex types to table columns, if multiple properties in different complex types had the same column name, they would silently share the same column.

Reviewer: How does this relate to the breaking change just below - are they dups? In other words, if the full path is now used (the change below), how is it possible to for multiple properties in different complex types to have the same column name (i.e. when would appending the number be necessary)?

    }
}
```

Running `dotnet ef dbcontext optimize` would generate code that attempted to reference these private methods, causing CS0122 compilation errors.

#### New behavior

Starting with EF Core 10.0, EF generates code that directly references the conversion methods themselves. If these methods are private, compilation will fail.

#### Why

This change improves performance by generating more direct code, but requires that conversion methods be accessible to the generated code.

#### Mitigations

Make the methods referenced by value converters public or internal instead of private:

```c#
public sealed class BooleanToCharConverter : ValueConverter<bool, char>
{
    public static readonly BooleanToCharConverter Default = new();

    public BooleanToCharConverter()
        : base(v => ConvertToChar(v), v => ConvertToBoolean(v))
    {
    }

    public static char ConvertToChar(bool value) // Now public
    {
        return value ? 'Y' : 'N';
    }

    public static bool ConvertToBoolean(char value) // Now public
    {
        return value == 'Y';
    }
}
```

<a name="complex-type-column-uniquification"></a>

### Complex type column names are now uniquified

> [Tracking Issue #4970](https://github.com/dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs/issues/4970)

Reviewer 2: @copilot Remove this line

#### Old behavior

> Previously, when mapping complex types to table columns, if multiple complex type properties had the same column name, they would silently share the same column.

Reviewer 2: @copilot 
```suggestion
Previously, when mapping complex types to table columns, if multiple properties in different complex types had the same column name, they would silently share the same column.
```

#### New behavior

Starting with EF Core 10.0, complex type column names are uniquified by appending a number at the end if another column with the same name exists on the table.

#### Why

> This prevents data corruption that could occur when multiple properties unintentionally mapped to the same column.

Reviewer 2: @copilot
```suggestion
This prevents data corruption that could occur when multiple properties are unintentionally mapped to the same column.
```

#### Mitigations

If you need specific column names, configure them explicitly:

```c#
modelBuilder.Entity<Customer>(b =>
{
    b.ComplexProperty(c => c.ShippingAddress, p => p.Property(a => a.Street).HasColumnName("ShippingStreet"));
    b.ComplexProperty(c => c.BillingAddress, p => p.Property(a => a.Street).HasColumnName("BillingStreet"));
});

> ```

Reviewer 2: @copilot Show how to configure to the same column name instead

<a name="discriminator-convention-signature"></a>

> ### IDiscriminatorPropertySetConvention signature changed

Reviewer 2: @copilot Sort this section last

> [Tracking Issue #4970](https://github.com/dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs/issues/4970)

Reviewer 2: @copilot Remove this line

#### Old behavior

Previously, `IDiscriminatorPropertySetConvention.ProcessDiscriminatorPropertySet` took `IConventionEntityTypeBuilder` as a parameter.

#### New behavior

Starting with EF Core 10.0, the method signature changed to take `IConventionTypeBaseBuilder` instead of `IConventionEntityTypeBuilder`.

#### Why

This change allows the convention to work with both entity types and complex types.

#### Mitigations

Update your custom convention implementations to use the new signature:

```c#
public virtual void ProcessDiscriminatorPropertySet(
    IConventionTypeBaseBuilder typeBaseBuilder, // Changed from IConventionEntityTypeBuilder
    string name,
    Type type,
    MemberInfo memberInfo,
    IConventionContext<IConventionProperty> context)
```

<a name="nested-complex-type-column-names"></a>

### Nested complex type properties use full path in column names

> [Tracking Issue #4947](https://github.com/dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs/issues/4947)

Reviewer 2: @copilot Remove this line

#### Old behavior

Previously, properties on nested complex types were mapped to columns using just the declaring type name. For example, `EntityType.Owned.Complex.Property` was mapped to column `Complex_Property`.

#### New behavior

Starting with EF Core 10.0, properties on nested complex types use the full path to the property as part of the column name. For example, `EntityType.Owned.Complex.Property` is now mapped to column `Owned_Complex_Property`.

#### Why

This provides better column name uniqueness and makes it clearer which property maps to which column.

#### Mitigations

If you need to maintain the old column names, configure them explicitly:

```c#
modelBuilder.Entity<EntityType>(b =>
{
    b.ComplexProperty(e => e.Owned, owned =>
    {
        owned.ComplexProperty(o => o.Complex, complex =>
        {
            complex.Property(c => c.Property).HasColumnName("Complex_Property");
        });

>     });

Reviewer 2: @copilot Avoid using nested lambdas
